docs/final/docs/site_code/tables.md, before:

---
{}
---

```python title="tables.py"
import pandas as pd
from mkreports import Report, md
from plotnine.data import mtcars


def use_tables(report: Report) -> None:
    """
    Show all the different ways on how we can work with tables.
    """
    ex_table = pd.DataFrame(
        [
            {"name": "Alfred", "age": 30, "hair": "red", "married": True},
            {"name": "Beate", "age": 50, "hair": "brown", "married": False},
            {
                "name": "Caro",
                "age": 7,
                "hair": "green",
                "married": False,
            },
        ]
    )
    ex_table["hair"] = pd.Categorical(ex_table.hair)

    p = report.page("usage/tables.md", truncate=True)

    p.H1("Different ways of handling tables")

    p.CollapsedCodeFile(__file__)

    p.Raw(
        """
        Conveying information with tables is very important for 
        any type of report. Standard tables in markdown format 
        can be very useful for this for limited amout of data, but for 
        larger tables more sophisticated libraries are needed. 
        """
    )
    with p.H2("Markdown tables"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Below an example of a regular markdown table. As it is very wide,
            horizontal scrolling is enabled by default. In addition, the number
            of rows is limited to 10 as there is no automatic paging available.
            """
        )
        p.add(md.Table(pd.DataFrame(mtcars).head(10), index=False))

    with p.H2("DataTable javascript library"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Here the same table, but displayed using the 
            [DataTables](https://datatables.net/)  
            plugin. With this, we get automatic paging, searching as well as sorting
            by columns. 
            """
        )
        # and as a DataTable
        p.DataTable(pd.DataFrame(mtcars))

        with p.H3("Header filters").ctx("nocode"):
            p.Raw(
                """
                Below a DataTable example with column filters in the header.
                The header in use is determined by the column type of the pandas
                table used for display. 

                - A numeric column gets a range selector
                - A categorical or boolean column a dropdown selection
                - Any other column a text-field.
                """
            )
            p.DataTable(ex_table, add_header_filters=True)

    with p.H2("Tabulator javascript library"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            This time, we use the [Tabulator](http://tabulator.info)
            library. A library with a lot of interesting 
            functionality.
            """
        )
        p.Tabulator(
            pd.DataFrame(mtcars), add_header_filters=False, prettify_colnames=False
        )

        with p.H3("Header filters").ctx("nocode"):
            p.Raw(
                """
                We also can enable header filtering. For the datatypes

                - numeric
                - boolean
                - categorical 
                - str

                default filter options have been defined. Below
                we create a table with various different data types
                to show these functions.

                The applied filters are

                - Input filter for the names
                - Range filter with min and max for age
                - Select dropdown for hair color
                - and checkbox for marital status
                """
            )
            p.Tabulator(ex_table, add_header_filters=True, prettify_colnames=True)

    with p.H2("Notes"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Internally, the tables are serialized to json so that 
            they can be displayed in the web-browser. For any types 
            that are non-native to json (e.g. Path-instances), as a
            default handler the `str` funtion is called. If this
            is not ok, please transform the table columns accordingly.
            """
        )

```

Commit message:

release new version with download for tables

docs/final/docs/site_code/tables.md, after:

---
{}
---

```python title="tables.py"
import pandas as pd
from mkreports import Report, md
from plotnine.data import mtcars


def use_tables(report: Report) -> None:
    """
    Show all the different ways on how we can work with tables.
    """
    ex_table = pd.DataFrame(
        [
            {"name": "Alfred", "age": 30, "hair": "red", "married": True},
            {"name": "Beate", "age": 50, "hair": "brown", "married": False},
            {
                "name": "Caro",
                "age": 7,
                "hair": "green",
                "married": False,
            },
        ]
    )
    ex_table["hair"] = pd.Categorical(ex_table.hair)

    p = report.page("usage/tables.md", truncate=True)

    p.H1("Different ways of handling tables")

    p.CollapsedCodeFile(__file__)

    p.Raw(
        """
        Conveying information with tables is very important for 
        any type of report. Standard tables in markdown format 
        can be very useful for this for limited amout of data, but for 
        larger tables more sophisticated libraries are needed. 
        """
    )
    with p.H2("Markdown tables"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Below an example of a regular markdown table. As it is very wide,
            horizontal scrolling is enabled by default. In addition, the number
            of rows is limited to 10 as there is no automatic paging available.
            """
        )
        p.add(md.Table(pd.DataFrame(mtcars).head(10), index=False))

    with p.H2("DataTable javascript library"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Here the same table, but displayed using the 
            [DataTables](https://datatables.net/)  
            plugin. With this, we get automatic paging, searching as well as sorting
            by columns. 
            """
        )
        # and as a DataTable
        p.DataTable(pd.DataFrame(mtcars))

        with p.H3("Header filters").ctx("nocode"):
            p.Raw(
                """
                Below a DataTable example with column filters in the header.
                The header in use is determined by the column type of the pandas
                table used for display. 

                - A numeric column gets a range selector
                - A categorical or boolean column a dropdown selection
                - Any other column a text-field.
                """
            )
            p.DataTable(ex_table, add_header_filters=True)

        with p.H3("Download buttons").ctx("nocode"):
            p.Raw(
                """
                An example with buttons for downloading and printing
                of the table.
                """
            )
            p.DataTable(ex_table, downloads=True)

    with p.H2("Tabulator javascript library"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            This time, we use the [Tabulator](http://tabulator.info)
            library. A library with a lot of interesting 
            functionality.
            """
        )
        p.Tabulator(
            pd.DataFrame(mtcars), add_header_filters=False, prettify_colnames=False
        )

        with p.H3("Header filters").ctx("nocode"):
            p.Raw(
                """
                We also can enable header filtering. For the datatypes

                - numeric
                - boolean
                - categorical 
                - str

                default filter options have been defined. Below
                we create a table with various different data types
                to show these functions.

                The applied filters are

                - Input filter for the names
                - Range filter with min and max for age
                - Select dropdown for hair color
                - and checkbox for marital status
                """
            )
            p.Tabulator(ex_table, add_header_filters=True, prettify_colnames=True)

        with p.H3("Download buttons").ctx("nocode"):
            p.P(
                """
                An example showing download buttons for export to csv, json or excel.
                """
            )
            p.Tabulator(
                ex_table,
                add_header_filters=True,
                prettify_colnames=True,
                downloads=True,
            )

    with p.H2("Notes"):
        p.Raw(
            """
            Internally, the tables are serialized to json so that 
            they can be displayed in the web-browser. For any types 
            that are non-native to json (e.g. Path-instances), as a
            default handler the `str` funtion is called. If this
            is not ok, please transform the table columns accordingly.
            """
        )

```
